Well, brothers, the next item, their agenda,
is what we've been working on for the past three months.
In Kevin, since this is your first elders meeting with us,
maybe we can fill in on the background.
Thanks, that'll be great.
We noted that some in the congregation were anxious
because of unstable world conditions.
And we decided to focus on strengthening the friends
when shepherding so that they'd be able to face future events
with courage.
Yeah, we also wanted to command them
where they're already shown courage.
To help them to see that the courage they developed now
will help them to display courage in the future.
Luther, how do things go in your group?
Maybe you can share an experience
that gives an idea of the overall results.
Sure.
I think the experience that best illustrates it is Marco Bryan's.
He was facing some serious pressure at work
to compromise his neutrality.
Look, Mark, I understand you don't like to get involved
in politics.
I don't either.
But if we don't protest this new bill,
our company is going to get hit with cutbacks and layoffs.
Joel, don't get me wrong.
I'm concerned too.
But I won't join the protest.
Okay.
So you won't stand in line in protest.
But at least sign the sheet to show you support the protest.
It's like you're voting or joining a political party.
Your name won't even be noticed.
We just need signatures.
So far, everyone in the company has had it.
Mark, I'm going to be straight with you.
The boss told me he's going to have to let some people go.
And your name is under serious consideration.
Depending on the outcome of this discussion,
just sign the paper, Mark.
Did he sign the paper?
No.
And you know why?
At that moment, he said a silent prayer
that gave him the courage needed to remain neutral.
I commended him, and I reminded him that displaying courage now
is going to help him in the future.
Thanks, Luther.
That's very encouraging to hear.
Matthew, how do things go with you?
Very good.
In fact, Sally's experience is one that stands out for me.
Hey, would you like to make a donation to the marathon?
No, thank you.
Shall I put it in the bag or do you want to wear it now?
It's wrong, honey.
You got something against them?
Well, no, I don't have anything against him personally.
So what's the problem?
I respect that they have a right to choose their lifestyle,
but as a bottle reader, I choose...
Excuse me.
I'm a bottle reader, too.
I go to church, and our church is one of the biggest supporters for this marathon.
So what are you trying to say?
Displaying courage now will help me display courage in the future.
Well, I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
and we believe the Bible teaches sexist for a man and a woman who are married.
In tolerant people.
That's your tough courage.
That's what I told her.
And I asked her to think about when the political powers destroy false religion.
At that time, people won't want to admit that they're religious.
And so for us, to admit that we're Jehovah's Witnesses then,
well, that's going to require the same type of courage as she displayed in that market.
Wow.
I remember when Sally was just a little girl handing out tracks.
And now, look how well she's done.
Speaking of tracks, may I share an experience with you, brother?
Sure.
Do you recall a little over 10 years ago,
we had the Kingdom News campaign, the end of false religion is near.
During our shepherding visit with Sherry Spencer,
she admitted that something happened to her during that campaign.
As a public service, I'm sharing in an earthquake distribution of this important message
that's your free copy.
Hey!
What's this about?
Are you trying to tell me that my religion is false and yours is true?
Get off my property!
You come back again, I'm going to set my dog on you!
Nobody wants to hear!
Sister Spencer said that experience stayed with her.
To this day, she finds it very difficult to be in the ministry.
Brothers, I feel like, after all these years,
if I can't get over this fear, I may not make it when times get harder.
Sister Spencer, you may be surprised to know that most of us get nervous when talking at the doors.
I know that I do.
You're just trying to make me feel better.
No, I'm saying it because it's true.
Being courageous doesn't mean we won't get nervous.
Sometimes being courageous means taking action even though we are nervous.
Thanks, that is encouraging.
Here's a suggestion that may help.
We've discussed Psalm 27 and verse 14.
Based on that scripture, the next time you're about to face a situation that calls for courage,
whether it be in the ministry or otherwise, tell yourself you just need to do these three things.
Pray, open Jehovah and act.
You got it?
Wait till I'm going to write that down.
Helping the friends address their fears, it's really going to help
when our message changes from good news to judgment.
So Peter, let's hear from you next.
When we informed everyone that the publishers were going to be redistributed to the north or south congregation,
let's just say some struggle with the idea.
Paula, did you see?
I have us going to the south congregation and everybody else from our group is going to north.
Yeah, I saw that.
My aunt and cousins will be going there, too.
Well, that doesn't make any sense. They should keep you together.
Well, at least the brothers said that the list was just a recommendation.
Well, they didn't say it exactly like that.
They said if we had extenuating circumstances.
So you don't have to go if you don't want to go.
If everyone did that, don't you think?
Hi, sister Taylor.
Oh, hello, girls.
I saw your name on the list for the south congregation, but your grandkids and their families, they're going to north.
So what are you going to do?
What do you mean?
Well, are you going to north or are you going to south?
Now, sweetie, didn't you say you saw my name listed under the south congregation?
Yeah, but so I'll be going to the south congregation.
Well, don't you think it would make more sense if you were in the same congregation as your grandkids and their families?
Does it make more sense?
Well, that's a whole different question.
The brothers outlined an arrangement.
They said they hope we could support that arrangement unless we had extenuating circumstances and I don't have any right now.
So for me, it's simple.
Whether I do all of the reasons or not, I'm going to support that arrangement.
Oh, look, girls, I've got to go.
Oh, and by the way, I hope to see you both in the south congregation.
I think this experience well illustrates one way to show courage now.
And that's by following the direction of the brothers taking the lead.
Even if we don't fully understand the reasons why this direction has been given.
Exactly.
We've been told when God of May, God, attacks Jehovah's people,
we may receive direction that may not seem practical.
So courageously following directions now will help us to do so then.
So brothers, we're almost done.
And if you don't mind, I'd like to share what happened with my group.
The Monroe's asked if I would join them on one of their family worship evenings.
So let's ask our final review question.
How can we prepare ourselves for the events that are to come?
Sarah?
We want to develop heartfelt obedience to the guidance that we receive now.
So that will obey any future instructions Jehovah may give us.
So doing this will help us survive Armageddon.
Well said.
Very nice to hear.
May I ask Brad a question?
Sure.
Go ahead.
Brad, I noticed you've really been focused on that picture.
You might have asked what you're thinking about.
Well, will the brothers tell us how to fight the people who will be attacking us?
We won't need to do any fighting.
Now what will we need the instructions for?
Are we just going to stand there and do nothing?
We don't know what those instructions will be, son.
Brad, when Armageddon comes, we'll have nothing to worry about.
And we won't have to fight.
We know that because of what Jehovah has done for us people in the past.
I'd like to show you an account in 2 Chronicles chapter 20.
It was a time when Moelbites and Ammonites started the war against the land of Judah,
who's been ruled by King Jehoshaphat.
Some of those Israelites were likely anxious, just like you.
Jehoshaphat gathered Judah at the temple and began to inquire of Jehovah.
And Jehovah caused the Levite named Jezile to give an answer that gave everyone courage.
What did he say?
Do not be afraid or be terrified because of this large crowd.
For the battle's not yours, but God's.
You will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position, stand still, and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
Jehovah turned the enemies against each other.
By the time the Israelites arrived, not one soldier was left.
It was obvious that Brad's courage was strengthened after reviewing this Bible account.
And I'm happy to say that after our discussions, the friends in our group
are more aware of how their own acts of courage now will help them be courageous in the future.
Enough from me, it's your turn, Albert.
How do things go with your group?
All responded nicely.
But there was one discussion about courage that I didn't anticipate.
Remember when Philip got accepted to work with LDC as a construction volunteer?
Yeah.
Well, getting accepted to LDC wasn't quite what he expected.
Wow, Philip, this is great.
Yeah, that's what everybody keeps saying.
It's just overwhelming.
I thought I was more cut out for a brothel, but construction volunteer?
I don't even know what that is.
Who knows where they'll send me?
And what if I get asked to do stuff I've never done before?
Well, Philip, your concerns are understandable.
I just don't think I can handle all of this.
I don't think you can, either.
Well, I'm glad someone finally agrees with me.
I say I don't think you can handle this assignment because...
It requires more than you to get it done.
I know what you're saying.
Of course, Jehovah will help me.
But do you really believe that?
I do, but...
But what?
I guess what I'm saying is I'm afraid.
That's okay.
When I first arrived in this congregation as my SKE assignment, I was afraid.
But you know, one verse that really helped me is First Chronicles 28, verse 20.
These are David's words to a son Solomon, whom Jehovah signed to build the temple.
Then David said to his son Solomon,
be courageous and strong and go to work.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.
For Jehovah God, my God, is with you.
He will not desert you or ban you.
But he will be with you until all the work for the service of Jehovah's House is finished.
This verse reminded me not to overthink all that needs to be done.
Just get started.
With Jehovah's help, you can be courageous.
Go to work.
There's Philip. Happy is can be.
He's really doing well.
Thanks, Albert, for sharing that with us.
While brothers, it's clear that Jehovah's less the hard work of the body of elders.
Now, there's something I wanted to say before we conclude our meeting.
And that's...
We know David.
We know we're feeling it too.
Yeah.
But I just have to say it.
I've really appreciated serving with you, brothers.
When I saw that our congregation was going to be merged, it wasn't easy for me.
We sure couldn't tell.
I'm glad.
But it really hit me hard.
The night we posted the list, recommending where the publishers should go.
It seems like it would have made more sense for me to be assigned to the North congregation,
where the majority of my friends would be going.
I've known those friends longer than any of the other brothers.
And now, they're sending that younger elder over to North to be the coordinator of their body of elders.
I just don't get it.
Why am I having such a hard time with this?
Of course, I'm going to go to the South congregation.
There's no reason not to.
The problem is my attitude.
I've told others for years that there are times when we have to put aside our personal preferences
to show our wholehearted support of Jehovah's sovereignty.
This is one of those times.
I need to be courageous and stand up to selfishness and independent thinking,
even if it's my own.
I was reminded.
It's simple.
When Jehovah's organization outlines an arrangement, we support it.
Not just because we're supposed to.
We do it with the right attitude.
Amen to that.
That's a lesson we're all learning.
But I'm glad we're able to shepherd the congregation before the changes take place.
Our brothers and sisters are better equipped to face the challenges ahead with courage.
It's being a real pleasure to serve with you all.
Peter, would you please conclude our meeting with prayer?
Sure.